Proposal
================
11/5/2020

### Authors

  - Isabel Nelson (isn2102)
  - Sushupta Vijapur (smv2138)
  - Kelley Lou (kl3181)

### Project Title

**The position of Community Gardens in New York City**

### Motivation

New York City is known for its towering skyscrapers and “concrete
jungle”. However, in more recent years, there has been a push to
advocate for more green spaces. Starting in the 60s, vacant lots left
behind in a period of economic crisis and disinvestment were gradually
transformed into usable open space by local residents. This ultimately
became the Community Garden movement in the 70s with the help of the
Green Guerillas and later community-driven initiatives. These gardens
offer residents an escape from the hustle of the city while providing a
sense of ownership and stability in the rapidly changing city.

This project hopes to explore the distribution these community gardens
and their relationships with the surrounding neighborhoods and
residents. We hope to examine the geographic location of the gardens,
proximity to different racial and economic clusters, and association
with property values.

### Intended Final Products

Our final project will be a website, consisting of a main landing page
with a brief introduction and overview of the project and the
collaborators involved. Further, we will map locations of community
gardens with relevant information about each garden. We will also
produce a report depicting any associations between the number/location
of community gardens and other variables of interest such as median
income in the neighborhood, age, race, and property values.

### Anticipated Data Sources

  - Primary data source will be [NYC Greenthumb Community
    Gardens](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Environment/NYC-Greenthumb-Community-Gardens/ajxm-kzmj)
  - Further neighborhood demographic data from
    [NYU](https://furmancenter.org/neighborhoods)
  - Additional demographic data by community board from
    [nyc.gov](https://communityprofiles.planning.nyc.gov/)
  - Property value data from [Revised property value
    notices](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/City-Government/Revised-Notice-of-Property-Value-RNOPV-/8vgb-zm6e)

### Planned Analyses / Visualizations / Coding Challenges

We plan to provide a leaflet map overlaying the location of the gardens
throughout the boroughs in New York. We also hope to show a few other
plots through shiny or a dashboard to help visualize the distribution of
gardens and the relationship to the other variables of interest.
Analyses will include regression models to assess if number of community
gardens in a certain location is associated with property values /
median incomes.

We anticipate there may be coding challenges when we merge datasets. If
the data is not coded consistently or with similar variables, it may be
difficult to combine the datasets that we need in order to answer our
research questions.

### Planned Timeline

  - November 7: Proposal
  - November 10-13: Project review meeting
  - November 14-20: Work on the report
  - November 21-27: Work on the webpage and screencast
  - November 28-December 5: Edit and finalize report, webpage and
    screencast, complete peer assessment
  - December 6-10: Prep for in class presentation/discussion\!

## INSTRUCTIONS

### Motivation

### Intended Final Products

### Anticipated Data Sources

Our primary data source will be the “NYC Greenthumb Community Gardens”
dataset from NYC OpenData.

### Planned Analyses / Visualizations / Coding Challenges

### Planned Timeline

## INSTRUCTIONS

### Submissions

Other than peer assessments, each deliverable will appear online (as
e.g. a GH repo or youtube video). Links should be submitted via
Courseworks by one team member (not necessarily the same person for each
deliverable).

### Team registration and proposal

First, you will define your teams and propose a project. This proposal
should be a half-page to a page in length and include:

  - The group members (names and UNIs)
  - The tentative project title
  - The motivation for this project
  - The intended final products
  - The anticipated data sources
  - The planned analyses / visualizations / coding challenges
  - The planned timeline
  - There should be one proposal per group, written collaboratively
    using .Rmd (rendering to a GH document) in a dedicated GitHub repo.
    Conceptually, this is intended to review a project that is 10%
    complete.
